#summary An overview of the BigBlueButton configuration and log files.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Overview =

!BigBlueButton is comprised of many [http://www.bigbluebutton.org/components open source components] along with a significant amount of additional code written by the !BigBlueButton team to implement the client and server functionality for web conferencing.  

Like any large open source project, this may seem complicated at first, but when you break everything down to its components, it becomes much less complex.  Here's our attempt to carefully walk you through each of the configuration and log files to help you understand how to modify and extend !BigBlueButton yourself.

The configuration files show an IP address of `192.168.0.100` -- you'll need to change it to match your local IP address when setting up !BigBlueButton.

Note: We used to have lots of detailed comments in this wiki page, but we found ourselves duplicating the comments in the code, so (as not to duplicate docs), we have moved most of the comments into the configuration files themselves, so do follow the links to see the comments in the configuration files. 

= nginx =

== Configuration files ==

Located in {{{/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/bigbluebutton}}}

http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bigbluebutton-client/config/bigbluebutton.nginx

== Log files ==

=== /var/log/nginx/bigbluebutton.access.log ===
Web log of access to !BigBlueButton HTML pages. 

=== /var/log/nginx/error.log ===
Web log of errors generated by nginx based on browser requests. 


= Red5 =

== Configuration files ==

=== /usr/share/red5/conf/red5-core.xml ===
Uncommented RTMPT section. This was commented out by default starting on Red5 0.8 release.
Follow this thread http://osflash.org/pipermail/red5_osflash.org/2009-June/033842.html for the reason.

=== /usr/share/red5/webapps/bigbluebutton/WEB-INF/bigbluebutton.properties ===
Properties for bbb-apps, the core !BigBlueButton red5 module.

http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bigbluebutton-apps/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/bigbluebutton.properties

=== /usr/share/red5/webapps/sip/WEB-INF/bigbluebutton-sip.properties ===
Properties for bbb-apps-sip, which specifies the range of ports for connecting to the Asterisk server.  Used with bbb_sip.conf.

http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bbb-voice/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/bigbluebutton-sip.properties

=== /usr/share/red5/log/deskshare.log ===
Debug output from the deskshare red5 application, which is the red5 server component  for supporting desktop sharing in the !BigBlueButton client.

=== /usr/share/red5/log/sip.log ===
Debug output from the sip red5 application, which is the red5 server component (based on Red5Phone) for supporting voice over IP in the !BigBlueButton client.

=== /usr/share/red5/log/video.log ===
Debug output from the video red5 application, which is the red5 server component for supporting video in the !BigBlueButton client.



= tomcat6 =

== Configuration files ==

=== /var/lib/tomcat/webapps/bigbluebutton/WEB-INF/classes/bigbluebutton.properties ===
This is one of the main configuration file for !BigBlueButton applications.

http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bigbluebutton-web/grails-app/conf/bigbluebutton.properties
  
== Log files ==
=== /var/log/tomcat6===
{{{catalina.yyyy-mm-dd.log}}}
General log information from startup of tomcat6

{{{localhost.yyyy-mm-dd.log}}}
General log information from startup of tomcat applications

=== /var/log/syslog ===
Also contains output from tomcat6.

=== /var/log/bigbluebutton ===
{{{bbb-web.log}}}
Contains !BigBlueButton grails app logs.


= Asterisk =
== Configuration files ===
=== /etc/asterisk/bbb_extensions.conf ===

http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bbb-voice-conference/config/asterisk/bbb_extensions.conf

=== /etc/asterisk/manager.d/bigbluebutton.conf ===

http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bbb-voice-conference/config/asterisk/bigbluebutton.conf

=== /etc/asterisk/bbb_sip.conf ===

[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bigbluebutton-client/src/conf/config.xml Click here to view the latest version]
http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bbb-voice-conference/config/asterisk/bbb_sip.conf

== Aditional Steps ==

=== extensions.conf ===
You must to edit the file: /etc/asterisk/extensions.conf and add the following line on the bottom of the file:

#include "bbb_extensions.conf"

=== sip.conf ===

You must to edit the file: /etc/asterisk/sip.conf and add the following line on the bottom of the file:

#include "bbb_sip.conf"



= !BigBlueButton Client (Flash) =
== Configuration File ==
=== /var/www/bigbluebutton/client/conf/config.xml ===

http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bigbluebutton-client/src/conf/config.xml